



RATS                                                            T. Reddy
Internet-Draft                                                     Nokia
Intended status: Standards Track                           H. Tschofenig
Expires: 25 December 2026                                       UniBw M.
                                                              T. Fossati
                                                                  Linaro
                                                             I. Mihalcea
                                                             Arm Limited
                                                             H. Birkholz
                                                          Fraunhofer SIT
                                                            23 June 2026


          Key Attestation for Entity Attestation Tokens (EAT)
                  draft-reddy-rats-key-binding-latest

Abstract

   This document defines an Entity Attestation Token (EAT) profile and a
   new EAT claim that convey the subject public key and its protection
   properties within attestation evidence.  Combined with protocol-level
   proof of possession from the surrounding protocol, this establishes a
   cryptographic binding between a private key and an attested execution
   environment.

   The subject public key is conveyed using the EAT cnf claim defined in
   [RFC8747] and [RFC7800], and freshness uses the EAT eat_nonce claim
   defined in [RFC9711].  The proof of possession of the subject key is
   obtained from the surrounding protocol, such as TLS certificate-based
   authentication or CSR signature verification.  Because the EAT is
   signed by a hardware-backed Attestation Key (AK), successful
   verification of the EAT signature together with protocol-level proof
   of possession establishes a cryptographic binding between the private
   key and the attested platform state.  This mechanism addresses key
   substitution attacks that arise when attestation evidence and the
   certificate private keys are validated independently.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   Status information for this document may be found at
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-reddy-rats-key-binding/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the RATS Working Group
   mailing list (mailto:rats@ietf.org), which is archived at
   https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/rats/.  Subscribe at
   https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/rats/.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 25 December 2026.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  Architecture
   4.  Key Confirmation and Binding Profile
     4.1.  Overview
     4.2.  High-Level Construction
   5.  Proof-of-Possession
     5.1.  Freshness Requirements
     5.2.  Verification Procedure
   6.  Split Model Profile
     6.1.  Verification Procedure
   7.  Claim Definition
     7.1.  Claim Structure
     7.2.  Subject Key in cnf
     7.3.  Protocol-Based PoP
     7.4.  Key Protection Attributes
     7.5.  Purpose
   8.  Security Considerations
     8.1.  Threat Model
     8.2.  Proof-of-Possession Rationale
     8.3.  Binding of Key Protection Claims to the Attested
           Environment
     8.4.  Key Protection Properties
     8.5.  Key Substitution Attack Illustration
     8.6.  Mitigation of Key Substitution Attacks
     8.7.  Claim Omission and Downgrade
     8.8.  Scope of Guarantees
   9.  IANA Considerations
   Acknowledgments
   Normative References
   Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

   Remote attestation enables an entity to produce attestation evidence
   that a verifier can use to assess whether the entity's platform state
   satisfies a required policy.  In certificate enrollment and
   authentication protocols (e.g., TLS), a common security policy
   requirement is that a private key used by an endpoint must be
   generated, stored, and protected within a trusted execution
   environment (TEE) or comparable hardware root of trust.

   In certificate enrollment workflows, a Certification Authority (CA)
   may require attestation evidence demonstrating that the private key
   corresponding to the public key in a certificate signing request
   (CSR) is protected by a hardware-backed environment.  The LAMPS CSR
   Attestation specification [I-D.ietf-lamps-csr-attestation] defines
   mechanisms for including attestation evidence alongside a CSR.  In
   this model, the CA verifies the CSR signature using the public key
   contained in the request and independently verifies the attestation
   evidence according to the RATS architecture, using applicable
   endorsements and trust anchors.  However, attestation evidence does
   not inherently provide a cryptographic proof that the private key
   used to sign the CSR is the same key that is generated, stored, or
   protected within the attested environment.  The CSR signature
   demonstrates possession of a private key, and the attestation
   demonstrates properties of a platform state, but there is no
   standardized mechanism that cryptographically binds these two
   validations together.  An endpoint could present valid attestation
   evidence from a protected environment while submitting a certificate
   signing request (CSR) that is signed with a private key not generated
   or stored within that environment.  In this case, the Certification
   Authority has no intrinsic cryptographic assurance that the private
   key corresponding to the CSR public key benefits from the protections
   described in the attestation evidence.

   A similar problem exists in TLS-based scenarios.  The TLS Exported
   Attestation specification [I-D.fossati-tls-exported-attestation] and
   the TLS Early Attestation specification
   [I-D.fossati-seat-early-attestation] define mechanisms for conveying
   attestation evidence within a TLS connection.  While the attestation
   evidence is bound to the TLS connection in these approaches, it does
   not intrinsically bind the attested environment to the private key
   corresponding to the end-entity certificate used for TLS
   authentication.  An endpoint could therefore obtain valid attestation
   evidence from a protected environment while performing certificate-
   based TLS authentication using a private key that is not confined to
   that environment.  For example, the TLS private key may reside
   outside the trusted execution environment and lack the protections
   claimed by the attestation evidence.

   This separation between validation of attestation evidence and
   validation of certificate private key creates a class of key
   substitution attacks.  In such an attack:

   *  A valid attestation produced by a genuine hardware-protected
      environment is presented to the verifier; and

   *  A private key that is not generated or protected within that
      environment is used in the CSR or TLS authentication flow.

   Because the attestation evidence and the certificate private key are
   validated independently, the verifier has no intrinsic cryptographic
   assurance that the operational private key benefits from the
   protections described in the attestation evidence.  This undermines
   security policy objectives that require the certificate private key
   to be generated and constrained within the attested environment.

   Addressing this problem requires a mechanism that provides both proof
   of possession of the private key and a cryptographic binding between
   that key and the attested platform state.

   A relying party will also require additional claims describing key
   protection properties, such as non-exportability or hardware-level
   protection.  For example, [I-D.ietf-rats-pkix-key-attestation]
   defines an evidence format for reporting properties of cryptographic
   modules and managed keys in PKIX environments.  The PKIX Key
   Attestation specification [I-D.ietf-rats-pkix-key-attestation]
   defines attributes including extractable, never-extractable,
   sensitive, and local that describe protection properties of keys
   managed by cryptographic modules.  These attributes can be conveyed
   using the key-attributes claim defined in this document while key
   confirmation itself is conveyed using cnf ([RFC8747] and [RFC7800])
   and protocol-level proof of possession.

   Appendix A.1.4 of [RFC9711] illustrates how a key and key store may
   be represented in evidence.  However, the example uses private-use
   claim labels and does not define standardized key-protection claims.
   This specification uses the standardized cnf claim from [RFC8747] and
   [RFC7800] and defines a new claim for key-protection attributes and
   usage constraints, while relying on protocol-level proof of
   possession.

   The use of directly conveyed key protection properties in attestation
   evidence is consistent with [I-D.ietf-rats-pkix-key-attestation],
   which defines attributes describing protection properties of managed
   keys, such as extractable, never-extractable, sensitive, and local.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   The reader is assumed to be familiar with the vocabulary and concepts
   defined in the RATS Architecture ([RFC9334]) such as Attester,
   Relying Party, Verifier.

   The reader is assumed to be familiar with the common vocabulary and
   concepts defined in [RFC5280] such as certificate, signature,
   attribute, verification and validation.

   The following terms are used in this document:

   Attestation Key (AK): A cryptographic key, typically hardware-backed,
   used to sign attestation evidence that conveys claims about the state
   of a platform or trusted execution environment.

   Attestation Evidence: Claims about a platform's state, signed by an
   Attestation Key, and conveyed in an Entity Attestation Token (EAT).

   Entity Attestation Token (EAT): A token format that conveys
   attestation claims, as defined in [RFC9711].

   Subject Key: An asymmetric key pair for which the protection of the
   private component within an attested execution environment is being
   asserted.  The corresponding public component is conveyed in the EAT
   cnf claim and compared with the key used in a CSR or TLS end-entity
   certificate.

   Proof of Possession (PoP): Evidence that demonstrates control of the
   private component of the Subject Key at a given point in time.  In
   this profile, PoP is obtained from the surrounding protocol (for
   example, TLS certificate-based authentication or CSR signature
   verification).

   Verifier: The entity that validates attestation evidence and
   evaluates whether the platform state and associated keys satisfy its
   policy.

   Certification Authority (CA): An entity that issues certificates and
   may require attestation evidence during certificate enrollment.

   Trusted Execution Environment (TEE): An isolated execution context
   that provides confidentiality and integrity protections for code and
   data, including cryptographic key material.

   Key Substitution Attack: An attack in which valid attestation
   evidence from a protected execution environment is presented to a
   verifier, while a private key used in a CSR or authentication
   protocol is not generated or protected within that environment.
   Because attestation evidence and certificate private key are
   validated independently, the verifier may lack cryptographic
   assurance that the certificate private key benefits from the
   protections claimed in the attestation.

   Key Attestation Key (KAK): An Attestation Key used specifically for
   signing Key Attestation Tokens in the split model (see Section 3).
   The KAK is protected within the trusted computing base, and its
   public key and protection properties are conveyed in the Platform
   Attestation Token via the cnf and key-attributes claims.

   Platform Attestation Token (PAT): An EAT signed by the platform
   Attestation Key that conveys the state of the trusted computing base.
   In this context, 'platform' refers to the Attester's full TCB.  The
   KAK public key is conveyed via the cnf claim, and KAK protection
   properties via the key-attributes claim.

   Key Attestation Token (KAT): An EAT signed by the KAK that conveys
   the Subject Public Key via the cnf claim and Subject Key protection
   properties via the key-attributes claim.

   Combined Attestation Bundle (CAB): A structure that bundles a Key
   Attestation Token (KAT) and a Platform Attestation Token (PAT)
   together for transport in the surrounding protocol, using the CMW
   collection format [I-D.ietf-rats-msg-wrap].

   The public key carried in the cnf claim is referred to as the Subject
   Public Key in this document, reflecting its use as the public key
   carried in the SubjectPublicKeyInfo field of an X.509 certificate
   [RFC5280] in certificate enrollment and TLS authentication.  In the
   context of the cnf claim defined in [RFC8747] and [RFC7800], this key
   serves as the proof-of-possession key.

3.  Architecture

   This document defines two deployment models for key attestation:

   *Combined Model:* The key attestation function and platform
   attestation function are hosted within the same trusted execution
   environment.  A single Attestation Key (AK) signs one EAT containing
   both platform state claims and key protection claims (cnf and key-
   attributes).  This is the simpler model and is suitable for platforms
   where separation of privilege between key attestation and platform
   attestation is not required.

   *Split Model:* The key attestation function and platform attestation
   function are separate logical roles within the trusted computing
   base, operating at different privilege levels.  Platform attestation
   requires higher privilege than key attestation, and the split model
   allows the key attestation function to operate at a lower privilege
   level within the TCB.  A dedicated Key Attestation Key (KAK) signs
   the Key Attestation Token (KAT), and a separate Platform Attestation
   Token (PAT) is generated and signed by the platform Attestation Key.
   The two tokens are bundled together as a Combined Attestation Bundle
   (CAB) for transport.

   In both models, proof of possession of the Subject Key is obtained
   from the surrounding protocol, as described in Section 5.

4.  Key Confirmation and Binding Profile

4.1.  Overview

   A foundational requirement of this profile is that the Subject Key
   MUST be generated and held within the attested execution environment.
   This is what gives the key-attributes claims their authority, the
   attested environment signs attestation evidence about key material it
   generated and controls.

   This document defines an EAT profile and a new EAT claim that
   establish a cryptographic binding between a Subject Key and an
   attested execution environment.

   The profile provides two properties:

   1.  Proof of Possession : Demonstration that the entity presenting
       the attestation controls the private component of the Subject
       Key.

   2.  Key-to-Platform Binding : Cryptographic association between the
       private component of the Subject Key and the attested platform
       state.

   The mechanism combines:

   *  an EAT signature generated by the Attestation Key (AK); and

   *  protocol-level proof of possession for the Subject Key.

   The subject public key used for protocol-level PoP verification is
   carried in the EAT cnf claim.  Because the attestation evidence is
   authenticated by the AK, and PoP is verified in the surrounding
   protocol, successful verification establishes that:

   *  The attested platform state is authentic; and

   *  The entity participating in the surrounding protocol demonstrates
      control of the private component of the Subject Key during
      protocol execution.

   This construction creates a cryptographic linkage between the Subject
   Key and the attested platform state, mitigating Key Substitution
   Attacks.

   The key-attributes claim conveys attributes describing key protection
   properties and permitted usage of the Subject Key. The key-attributes
   claim MUST be present and MUST contain at least one member.  When
   present, attributes such as extractable, never-extractable,
   sensitive, and local MUST follow the semantics defined in
   [I-D.ietf-rats-pkix-key-attestation].  These attributes enable
   relying parties to enforce policies such as requiring keys to be
   generated within the attested environment and prohibiting extraction
   of private key material.

4.2.  High-Level Construction

   At a high level, the mechanism binds a certificate private key to an
   attested execution environment by combining AK-signed attestation
   evidence and protocol-level proof of possession.

   First, the attester constructs an EAT Claims Set including:

   *  the verifier-provided eat_nonce claim from [RFC9711];

   *  the cnf claim containing the Subject Public Key;

   *  the key-attributes claim defined in this document.

   Second, the EAT is signed using the Attestation Key.

   During verification, three relationships are checked:

   *  The digitally signed and protected EAT establishes that the
      platform state is authentic.

   *  The protocol-level PoP check establishes control of the private
      component of the Subject Key.

   *  The public key in cnf is compared with the public key in the CSR
      or TLS end-entity certificate to ensure they refer to the same
      operational key.

   When these checks succeed, the verifier gains assurance that the
   certificate private key used in the protocol is the same key whose
   protection within the attested execution environment is being
   asserted.

5.  Proof-of-Possession

   The Proof of Possession (PoP) demonstrates control of the private
   component of the Subject Key.

   In this profile, PoP MUST be verified by the surrounding protocol:

   *  In certificate enrollment workflows, by validating the CSR
      signature.

   *  In TLS workflows, by validating certificate-based TLS
      authentication.

   The public key used for protocol-level PoP verification MUST
   correspond to the Subject Public Key in EAT cnf.

   For this profile, the EAT eat_nonce claim defined in [RFC9711] is the
   mandatory freshness mechanism.  The EAT eat_nonce claim MUST be
   present and MUST contain a single nonce value supplied by the
   verifier.

   The nonce MUST be supplied by the verifier and MUST be unpredictable
   and unique within the verifier's replay window.

   The validity period of the key attestation evidence is determined by
   the lifetime of the enclosing EAT.  Verifiers MUST enforce the iat,
   nbf, and exp claims defined in [RFC9711] to ensure that attestation
   evidence is not used outside its intended validity window.

5.1.  Freshness Requirements

   The verifier MUST provide a nonce with sufficient entropy to prevent
   replay.  The nonce is conveyed to the Attester by the Relying Party
   through the surrounding protocol.  The nonce MUST be unpredictable
   and unique within the verifier's replay window.  The verifier MUST
   validate that the nonce claim in the EAT matches the nonce it
   supplied.  Failure to include verifier-provided freshness renders the
   mechanism vulnerable to replay of previously valid attestation
   evidence.  Mechanisms for obtaining and conveying such nonces in
   certificate enrollment protocols are described in
   [I-D.ietf-lamps-attestation-freshness].

   The verifier-provided nonce is the primary mechanism for ensuring
   freshness of the attestation evidence.  The EAT time-based claims
   (iat, nbf, and exp) provide an additional validity window for the
   attestation evidence but do not replace the requirement for a
   verifier-provided nonce.  Verifiers MUST validate both the nonce and
   the applicable time-based claims when evaluating this profile.

5.2.  Verification Procedure

   Upon receipt of attestation evidence for this profile, the Verifier
   MUST perform the following checks:

   1.  Validate the signature on the EAT using the applicable trust
       anchors for the Attestation Key. If this validation fails, the
       attestation evidence MUST be rejected.

   2.  Validate the key-attributes claim.  The key-attributes claim MUST
       be present and MUST contain at least one member.  Trust in the
       key-attributes claim depends on successful appraisal of the
       attestation evidence for the target environment in which the
       Subject Key is generated and protected.  Such appraisal includes
       evaluation of measurements in the attestation evidence against
       the applicable reference values as described in the RATS
       Architecture [RFC9334] and EAT [RFC9711].

   3.  Validate the EAT eat_nonce claim.  The EAT eat_nonce claim MUST
       be present, MUST contain a single nonce value, and MUST match the
       verifier-supplied nonce.

   4.  Extract the Subject Public Key from the EAT cnf claim.

   5.  Compare the Subject Public Key contained in cnf with the public
       key used for protocol-level PoP verification.  This public key is
       either obtained directly from the protocol or supplied to the
       Verifier by the Relying Party.

       *  In certificate enrollment, the public key is obtained from the
          CSR.

       *  In TLS, the public key is obtained from the end-entity
          certificate used for TLS authentication.

   The public key provided to the Verifier MUST correspond to the same
   key for which protocol-level PoP verification was performed.  If the
   public key parameters do not match, the binding verification MUST
   fail.

   Successful completion of all checks establishes a cryptographic
   binding between the private component corresponding to the public key
   used in the CSR or TLS end-entity certificate and the attested
   execution environment at the time the evidence was generated.

   The Verifier conveys the result of the binding verification to the
   Relying Party as part of the attestation result.

6.  Split Model Profile

   In the split model, the key attestation function and platform
   attestation function are separate logical roles within the trusted
   computing base.  Two EATs are generated and bundled together as a
   Combined Attestation Bundle (CAB) using the CMW collection format
   [I-D.ietf-rats-msg-wrap]:

   *  A Platform Attestation Token (PAT), signed by the platform
      Attestation Key, that conveys the state of the trusted computing
      base, the KAK public key via the cnf claim, and KAK protection
      properties via the key-attributes claim.

   *  A Key Attestation Token (KAT), signed by the Key Attestation Key
      (KAK), that conveys the Subject Public Key via the cnf claim and
      Subject Key protection properties via the key-attributes claim.

   The KAT is signed by the KAK whose public key and protection
   properties are attested in the PAT.  This provides cryptographic
   binding between the two tokens without requiring a separate linkage
   mechanism.

6.1.  Verification Procedure

   Upon receipt of a CAB for this profile, the Verifier MUST perform the
   following checks:

   1.  Validate the signature on the PAT using the applicable trust
       anchors for the platform Attestation Key. If this validation
       fails, the attestation evidence MUST be rejected.

   2.  Validate the EAT eat_nonce claim in the PAT.  The eat_nonce claim
       MUST be present, MUST contain a single nonce value, and MUST
       match the verifier-supplied nonce.

   3.  Validate the key-attributes claim in the PAT.  The key-attributes
       claim MUST be present and MUST contain at least one member.
       Trust in the key-attributes claim depends on successful appraisal
       of the PAT against applicable reference values as described in
       [RFC9334].

   4.  Extract the KAK public key from the cnf claim in the PAT.

   5.  Validate the signature on the KAT using the KAK public key
       extracted in step 4.  If this validation fails, the attestation
       evidence MUST be rejected.

   6.  Validate the key-attributes claim in the KAT.  The key-attributes
       claim MUST be present and MUST contain at least one member.

   7.  Validate the EAT eat_nonce claim in the KAT.  The eat_nonce claim
       MUST be present, MUST contain a single nonce value, and MUST
       match the verifier-supplied nonce.

   8.  Extract the Subject Public Key from the cnf claim in the KAT and
       compare it with the public key used for protocol-level PoP
       verification, following the same procedure defined in steps 4 and
       5 of Section 5.2.

7.  Claim Definition

   This document defines a new EAT claim named key-attributes that
   conveys key protection attributes and key-usage constraints for the
   Subject Key.

7.1.  Claim Structure

   The claim is defined using CDDL as follows:

   key-attributes = {
   ; Optional key protection attributes
   ? extractable: bool,
   ? never-extractable: bool,
   ? sensitive: bool,
   ? local: bool,

   ; Optional cryptographic usage constraints
   ? purpose: [* oid]

   }

   oid = tstr  ; dotted-decimal OID string

   The key-attributes claim MUST contain at least one member.

7.2.  Subject Key in cnf

   This profile uses the EAT cnf claim defined in [RFC8747] and
   [RFC7800] to carry the Subject Public Key.

   When comparing the Subject Public Key contained in cnf with the
   public key used in a CSR or TLS end-entity certificate, the
   comparison MUST be performed over the public key parameters rather
   than over their serialized encodings.  This ensures that differences
   in encoding formats (e.g., ASN.1 DER versus CBOR) do not cause two
   equivalent public keys to be incorrectly treated as unequal.

   For example:

   *  For RSA keys: The modulus (n) and public exponent (e) MUST match.

   *  For elliptic curve keys: The curve identifier and public key
      coordinates (e.g., x and y values) MUST match.  If an
      implementation supports point compression, keys MUST be
      decompressed to a common format before the comparison is
      performed.

   *  For ML-DSA, SLH-DSA, and FN-DSA keys: The comparison MUST be
      performed over the raw public key byte string defined by the
      relevant algorithm specification (e.g., FIPS-204 for ML-DSA).  In
      cnf, the Verifier MUST extract the raw public key bytes from the
      pub parameter of that structure.  In an X.509 certificate
      [RFC5280], the public key is carried in the SubjectPublicKeyInfo
      structure.  The Verifier MUST extract the contents of the
      subjectPublicKey BIT STRING and obtain the contained public key
      byte string.  The raw public key byte string extracted from cnf
      and the byte string extracted from the certificate MUST match
      exactly.

   *  For other key types: The public key parameters defined by the
      relevant cryptographic specification MUST match exactly.
      Comparison based solely on serialized encodings (e.g., raw CBOR,
      JSON, or DER byte sequences) is NOT RECOMMENDED, as differences in
      encoding rules may cause equivalent keys to appear unequal.

   If the comparison fails, the key-to-platform binding is not
   established.

7.3.  Protocol-Based PoP

   This profile relies on protocol-level proof of possession for the
   Subject Key. This document does not define a new in-token PoP
   container or signature format.

7.4.  Key Protection Attributes

   The key-attributes claim includes attributes describing key
   protection properties of the private component of the Subject Key.

   When present, the attributes extractable, never-extractable,
   sensitive, and local MUST follow the definitions and semantics
   specified in [I-D.ietf-rats-pkix-key-attestation].

   This document does not redefine these attributes.  Their
   interpretation and security semantics are defined in
   [I-D.ietf-rats-pkix-key-attestation].

   A Verifier will evaluate these attributes as part of its security
   policy when determining whether the Subject Key satisfies
   requirements for key generation, storage, or exportability.

7.5.  Purpose

   The purpose parameter identifies the key capabilities associated with
   the Subject Key.

   The value of this parameter is a list of object identifiers (OIDs)
   identifying the key capabilities defined in
   [I-D.ietf-rats-pkix-key-attestation].

   These OIDs correspond to the key capability identifiers defined in
   Section 5.2.5 of [I-D.ietf-rats-pkix-key-attestation].

   When the key-attributes claim is used in certificate enrollment
   workflows, the reported key capabilities MUST be compatible with the
   KeyUsage extensions requested in the CSR and included in the issued
   certificate.

8.  Security Considerations

8.1.  Threat Model

   This document addresses Key Substitution Attacks.  In such attacks,
   valid attestation evidence from a protected execution environment is
   presented to a verifier while a private key used in certificate
   enrollment or TLS authentication is not generated or protected within
   that environment.

   The mechanism defined in this document assumes:

   *  The AK is securely provisioned and protected.

   *  The AK correctly signs attestation evidence reflecting the
      platform state.

   *  The surrounding protocol correctly verifies proof of possession of
      the Subject Key private component.

   *  The verifier provides an unpredictable nonce to ensure freshness.

   *  The Attester generates the Subject Key within the attested
      execution environment and does not export the private component in
      cleartext.  If this assumption does not hold, the key-attributes
      claims do not accurately reflect the protection properties of the
      Subject Key, and the security guarantees of this profile do not
      apply.

   For the split model, the following additional assumption applies:

   *  The platform Attester generates and protects the KAK within the
      trusted computing base, and the KAK private component is never
      exported in cleartext.  If this assumption does not hold, the key-
      attributes claims in the PAT do not accurately reflect the
      protection properties of the KAK.

   If these assumptions do not hold, the security guarantees of this
   mechanism do not apply.

8.2.  Proof-of-Possession Rationale

   The AK signature over the EAT provides evidence about the Subject Key
   and its asserted protection properties.  Protocol-level PoP
   verification provides direct evidence of control of the Subject Key.

   By requiring both checks, the profile prevents reliance solely on
   self-reported claims about the presence of the Subject Key in the
   attested environment.

8.3.  Binding of Key Protection Claims to the Attested Environment

   The key-attributes claim conveys protection properties of the Subject
   Key, such as non-exportability and hardware-level protection.  For
   these claims to be trustworthy, they must be asserted by the attested
   environment that generated and holds the Subject Key, as it is the
   only entity with direct knowledge of and authority over the key
   protection properties.

   An alternative construction sometimes used in attestation protocols
   is to build an unsigned claims set (UCCS) containing the Subject
   Public Key and associated attributes, hash it, and supply the hash as
   a challenge to an existing attestation interface.  In such
   constructions, the attestation evidence provides an indirect
   cryptographic binding between the claims set and the attested
   environment.  However, a TEE-bound process acting as a proxy could
   forward a fabricated UCCS on behalf of an untrusted caller, causing
   the attested environment to sign claims it did not generate and
   cannot verify.

   This profile instead requires the Attestation Key (AK) to directly
   sign the EAT Claims Set containing the key-attributes claim and the
   Subject Public Key in cnf.  This ensures that key protection
   attributes are conveyed as claims directly attested by the Attestor,
   eliminating the risk of fabricated claims being indirectly bound to
   attestation evidence.

8.4.  Key Protection Properties

   The cnf claim establishes a cryptographic binding between the Subject
   Key and the attestation evidence.  However, the cnf claim alone does
   not convey information about the protection properties of the private
   component of that key.

   Some deployments require assurances regarding how the private key is
   generated, stored, and protected (for example, whether the key is
   non-exportable or generated within a hardware-protected environment).
   The key-attributes claim enables the Verifier to evaluate such
   properties and determine whether the Subject Key satisfies the
   security requirements of the deployment.

8.5.  Key Substitution Attack Illustration

   The following example illustrates how the mechanism detects a Key
   Substitution Attack.

   1.  An attacker generates a private key outside the trusted execution
       environment, denoted as K_bad.

   2.  The attacker also possesses or obtains attestation evidence for a
       different key protected within the trusted execution environment,
       denoted as K_good.

   3.  The attacker submits a certificate signing request (CSR) signed
       using K_bad while attaching an EAT containing cnf for K_good.

   4.  During verification, the Subject Public Key contained in cnf
       (corresponding to K_good) is compared with the public key
       contained in the CSR (corresponding to K_bad).

   Because the public keys do not match, the binding verification fails.
   Although the attestation evidence and the CSR signature may each be
   valid independently, the mismatch prevents the establishment of a
   cryptographic binding between the certificate private key and the
   attested execution environment.

8.6.  Mitigation of Key Substitution Attacks

   This mechanism mitigates Key Substitution Attacks by requiring
   cryptographic proof that the private key used in a CSR or TLS
   authentication flow corresponds to the key whose protection within
   the attested execution environment is being asserted.

   Because protocol-level proof of possession is validated together with
   the EAT signature, and because the claimed Subject Public Key in cnf
   must match the public key used in the protocol, substitution of a
   private key that is not generated or protected within the attested
   execution environment is detected.

   If any of these validations fail, the binding is not established.

8.7.  Claim Omission and Downgrade

   If a security policy requires that the private key corresponding to a
   certificate be generated or protected within an attested execution
   environment, the Relying Party MUST ensure that the key-attributes
   claim defined in this document is present, that the EAT eat_nonce
   claim is present, that the cnf claim is present with the subject
   public key, that protocol-level PoP verification succeeds, and that
   binding verification succeeds.

   In deployments using a separate Verifier, the Relying Party MUST
   require the Verifier to enforce the presence and successful
   validation of the key-attributes claim, EAT eat_nonce, cnf with the
   subject public key, and protocol-level PoP verification as part of
   attestation appraisal.

8.8.  Scope of Guarantees

   This mechanism provides cryptographic evidence that the entity
   participating in the surrounding protocol demonstrated control of the
   private component of the Subject Key during protocol execution.

   It does not guarantee:

   *  That the key remains protected after attestation;

   *  That the key cannot later be exported or migrated;

   *  That the platform remains in the same state after evidence
      generation.

   Such guarantees depend on platform-specific properties and lifecycle
   management outside the scope of this document.

9.  IANA Considerations

   This document requests registration of a new claim in the "CBOR Web
   Token (CWT) Claims" registry (established by [RFC8392]).

   The following value is to be added to this registry:

   *  Claim Name: key-attributes

   *  CWT Claim Key: TBD

   *  Claim Description: Key protection attributes and key-usage
      constraints associated with the Subject Key identified by the EAT
      cnf claim.

   *  Claim Value Type: CBOR map

   *  Change Controller: IETF

   *  Reference: RFCXXXX

   This document also requests registration of a new claim in the "JSON
   Web Token (JWT) Claims" registry (established by [RFC7519]).

   The following value is to be added to this registry:

   *  Claim Name: key-attributes

   *  Claim Description: Key protection attributes and key-usage
      constraints associated with the Subject Key identified by the EAT
      cnf claim.

   *  Change Controller: IETF

   *  Reference: RFCXXXX

Acknowledgments

   The authors thank Paul Wouters and Nathanael Ritz for the discussion
   and comments.

Normative References

   [I-D.fossati-seat-early-attestation]
              Sheffer, Y., Mihalcea, I., Deshpande, Y., Fossati, T., and
              T. Reddy.K, "Using Attestation in Transport Layer Security
              (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)", Work
              in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-fossati-seat-early-
              attestation-04, 27 May 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-fossati-seat-
              early-attestation-04>.

   [I-D.fossati-tls-exported-attestation]
              Fossati, T., Sardar, M. U., Reddy.K, T., Sheffer, Y.,
              Tschofenig, H., and I. Mihalcea, "Remote Attestation with
              Exported Authenticators", Work in Progress, Internet-
              Draft, draft-fossati-tls-exported-attestation-02, 3 July
              2025, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-
              fossati-tls-exported-attestation-02>.

   [I-D.ietf-lamps-attestation-freshness]
              Tschofenig, H., Brockhaus, H., Mandel, J., and S. Turner,
              "Nonce-based Freshness for Remote Attestation in
              Certificate Signing Requests (CSRs) for the Certification
              Management Protocol (CMP), for Enrollment over Secure
              Transport (EST), and for Certificate Management over CMS
              (CMC)", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-
              lamps-attestation-freshness-06, 20 April 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-lamps-
              attestation-freshness-06>.

   [I-D.ietf-lamps-csr-attestation]
              Ounsworth, M., Tschofenig, H., Birkholz, H., Wiseman, M.,
              and N. Smith, "Use of Remote Attestation with
              Certification Signing Requests", Work in Progress,
              Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-lamps-csr-attestation-28, 16
              June 2026, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-
              ietf-lamps-csr-attestation-28>.

   [I-D.ietf-rats-msg-wrap]
              Birkholz, H., Smith, N., Fossati, T., Tschofenig, H., and
              D. Glaze, "RATS Conceptual Messages Wrapper (CMW)", Work
              in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-rats-msg-wrap-23,
              11 December 2025, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/
              draft-ietf-rats-msg-wrap-23>.

   [I-D.ietf-rats-pkix-key-attestation]
              Ounsworth, M., Fiset, J., Tschofenig, H., Birkholz, H.,
              Wiseman, M., and N. Smith, "Evidence Encoding for Hardware
              Security Modules", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft,
              draft-ietf-rats-pkix-key-attestation-05, 17 March 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-rats-
              pkix-key-attestation-05>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC5280]  Cooper, D., Santesson, S., Farrell, S., Boeyen, S.,
              Housley, R., and W. Polk, "Internet X.509 Public Key
              Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation List
              (CRL) Profile", RFC 5280, DOI 10.17487/RFC5280, May 2008,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5280>.

   [RFC7519]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web Token
              (JWT)", RFC 7519, DOI 10.17487/RFC7519, May 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7519>.

   [RFC7800]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and H. Tschofenig, "Proof-of-
              Possession Key Semantics for JSON Web Tokens (JWTs)",
              RFC 7800, DOI 10.17487/RFC7800, April 2016,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7800>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

   [RFC8392]  Jones, M., Wahlstroem, E., Erdtman, S., and H. Tschofenig,
              "CBOR Web Token (CWT)", RFC 8392, DOI 10.17487/RFC8392,
              May 2018, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8392>.

   [RFC8747]  Jones, M., Seitz, L., Selander, G., Erdtman, S., and H.
              Tschofenig, "Proof-of-Possession Key Semantics for CBOR
              Web Tokens (CWTs)", RFC 8747, DOI 10.17487/RFC8747, March
              2020, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8747>.

   [RFC9334]  Birkholz, H., Thaler, D., Richardson, M., Smith, N., and
              W. Pan, "Remote ATtestation procedureS (RATS)
              Architecture", RFC 9334, DOI 10.17487/RFC9334, January
              2023, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9334>.

   [RFC9711]  Lundblade, L., Mandyam, G., O'Donoghue, J., and C.
              Wallace, "The Entity Attestation Token (EAT)", RFC 9711,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9711, April 2025,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9711>.

Authors' Addresses

   Tirumaleswar Reddy
   Nokia
   Bangalore
   Karnataka
   India
   Email: k.tirumaleswar_reddy@nokia.com


   Hannes Tschofenig
   University of the Bundeswehr Munich
   Neubiberg
   Germany
   Email: hannes.tschofenig@gmx.net


   Thomas Fossati
   Linaro
   Email: thomas.fossati@linaro.org


   Ionut Mihalcea
   Arm Limited
   Email: Ionut.Mihalcea@arm.com


   Henk Birkholz
   Fraunhofer SIT
   Email: henk.birkholz@ietf.contact
