



RATS                                                            T. Reddy
Internet-Draft                                                     Nokia
Intended status: Standards Track                           H. Tschofenig
Expires: 12 September 2026                                      UniBw M.
                                                           11 March 2026


          Key Attestation for Entity Attestation Tokens (EAT)
                  draft-reddy-rats-key-binding-latest

Abstract

   This document defines a CWT-based Entity Attestation Token (EAT)
   profile and a new EAT claim that cryptographically bind a private key
   used to sign a certificate signing request (CSR), or the private key
   corresponding to an end-entity certificate used for TLS
   authentication, to an attested execution environment.

   The subject public key is conveyed using the EAT cnf claim defined in
   [RFC8747], and freshness uses the EAT nonce claim defined in
   [RFC9711].  The proof of possession of the subject key is obtained
   from the surrounding protocol, such as TLS certificate-based
   authentication or CSR signature verification.  Because the EAT is
   signed by a hardware-backed Attestation Key (AK), successful
   verification of the EAT signature together with protocol-level proof
   of possession establishes a cryptographic binding between the private
   key and the attested platform state.  This mechanism addresses key
   substitution attacks that arise when attestation evidence and the
   certificate private keys are validated independently.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   Status information for this document may be found at
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-reddy-rats-key-binding/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the RATS Working Group
   mailing list (mailto:rats@ietf.org), which is archived at
   https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/rats/.  Subscribe at
   https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/rats/.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 12 September 2026.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  Key Confirmation and Binding Profile
     3.1.  Overview
     3.2.  High-Level Construction
   4.  Proof-of-Possession
     4.1.  Freshness Requirements
     4.2.  Verification Procedure
   5.  Claim Definition
     5.1.  Claim Structure
     5.2.  Subject Key in cnf
     5.3.  Protocol-Based PoP
     5.4.  Key Protection Attributes
     5.5.  Purpose
   6.  Security Considerations
     6.1.  Threat Model
     6.2.  Proof-of-Possession Rationale
     6.3.  Key Substitution Attack Illustration
     6.4.  Mitigation of Key Substitution Attacks
     6.5.  Claim Omission and Downgrade
     6.6.  Scope of Guarantees
   7.  IANA Considerations
   Acknowledgments
   Normative References
   Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

   Remote attestation enables an entity to produce attestation evidence
   that a verifier can use to assess whether the entity’s platform state
   satisfies a required policy.  In certificate enrollment and
   authentication protocols (e.g., TLS), a common security policy
   requirement is that a private key used by an endpoint must be
   generated, stored, and protected within a trusted execution
   environment (TEE) or comparable hardware root of trust.

   In certificate enrollment workflows, a Certification Authority (CA)
   may require attestation evidence demonstrating that the private key
   corresponding to the public key in a certificate signing request
   (CSR) is protected by a hardware-backed environment.  The LAMPS CSR
   Attestation specification [I-D.ietf-lamps-csr-attestation] defines
   mechanisms for including attestation evidence alongside a CSR.  In
   this model, the CA verifies the CSR signature using the public key
   contained in the request and independently verifies the attestation
   evidence according to the RATS architecture, using applicable
   endorsements and trust anchors.  However, attestation evidence does
   not inherently provide a cryptographic proof that the private key
   used to sign the CSR is the same key that is generated, stored, or
   protected within the attested environment.  The CSR signature
   demonstrates possession of a private key, and the attestation
   demonstrates properties of a platform state, but there is no
   standardized mechanism that cryptographically binds these two
   validations together.  An endpoint could present valid attestation
   evidence from a protected environment while submitting a certificate
   signing request (CSR) that is signed with a private key not generated
   or stored within that environment.  In this case, the Certification
   Authority has no intrinsic cryptographic assurance that the private
   key corresponding to the CSR public key benefits from the protections
   described in the attestation evidence.

   A similar problem exists in TLS-based scenarios.  The TLS Exported
   Attestation specification [I-D.fossati-tls-exported-attestation] and
   the TLS Early Attestation specification
   [I-D.fossati-seat-early-attestation] define mechanisms for conveying
   attestation evidence within a TLS connection.  While the attestation
   evidence is bound to the TLS connection in these approaches, it does
   not intrinsically bind the attested environment to the private key
   corresponding to the end-entity certificate used for TLS
   authentication.  An endpoint could therefore obtain valid attestation
   evidence from a protected environment while performing certificate-
   based TLS authentication using a private key that is not confined to
   that environment.  For example, the TLS private key may reside
   outside the trusted execution environment and lack the protections
   claimed by the attestation evidence.

   This separation between validation of attestation evidence and
   validation of certificate private key creates a class of key
   substitution attacks.  In such an attack:

   *  A valid attestation produced by a genuine hardware-protected
      environment is presented to the verifier; and

   *  A private key that is not generated or protected within that
      environment is used in the CSR or TLS authentication flow.

   Because the attestation evidence and the certificate private key are
   validated independently, the verifier has no intrinsic cryptographic
   assurance that the operational private key benefits from the
   protections described in the attestation evidence.  This undermines
   security policy objectives that require the certificate private key
   to be generated and constrained within the attested environment.

   Addressing this problem requires a mechanism that provides both proof
   of possession of the private key and a cryptographic binding between
   that key and the attested platform state.

   A relying party will also require additional claims describing key
   protection properties, such as non-exportability or hardware-level
   protection.  For example, [I-D.ietf-rats-pkix-key-attestation]
   defines an evidence format for reporting properties of cryptographic
   modules and managed keys in PKIX environments.  The PKIX Key
   Attestation specification [I-D.ietf-rats-pkix-key-attestation]
   defines attributes including extractable, never-extractable,
   sensitive, and local that describe protection properties of keys
   managed by cryptographic modules.  These attributes can be conveyed
   using the key-attributes claim defined in this document while key
   confirmation itself is conveyed using cnf ([RFC8747]) and protocol-
   level proof of possession.

   Appendix A.1.4 of [RFC9711] illustrates how a key and key store may
   be represented in evidence.  However, the example uses private-use
   claim labels and does not define standardized key-protection claims.
   This specification uses the standardized cnf claim from [RFC8747] and
   defines a new claim for key-protection attributes and usage
   constraints, while relying on protocol-level proof of possession.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   The reader is assumed to be familiar with the vocabulary and concepts
   defined in the RATS Architecture ([RFC9334]) such as Attester,
   Relying Party, Verifier.

   The reader is assumed to be familiar with common vocabulary and
   concepts defined in [RFC5280] such as certificate, signature,
   attribute, verification and validation.

   The following terms are used in this document:

   Attestation Key (AK): A cryptographic key, typically hardware-backed,
   used to sign attestation evidence that conveys claims about the state
   of a platform or trusted execution environment.

   Attestation Evidence: Claims about a platform's state, signed by an
   Attestation Key, and conveyed in an Entity Attestation Token (EAT).

   Entity Attestation Token (EAT): A token format that conveys
   attestation claims, as defined in [RFC9711]

   Subject Key: An asymmetric key pair for which the protection of the
   private component within an attested execution environment is being
   asserted.  The corresponding public component is conveyed in the EAT
   cnf claim and compared with the key used in a CSR or TLS end-entity
   certificate.

   Proof of Possession (PoP): Evidence that demonstrates control of the
   private component of the Subject Key at a given point in time.  In
   this profile, PoP is obtained from the surrounding protocol (for
   example, TLS certificate-based authentication or CSR signature
   verification).

   Verifier: The entity that validates attestation evidence and
   evaluates whether the platform state and associated keys satisfy its
   policy.

   Certification Authority (CA): An entity that issues certificates and
   may require attestation evidence during certificate enrollment.

   Trusted Execution Environment (TEE): An isolated execution context
   that provides confidentiality and integrity protections for code and
   data, including cryptographic key material.

   Key Substitution Attack: An attack in which valid attestation
   evidence from a protected execution environment is presented to a
   verifier, while a private key used in a CSR or authentication
   protocol is not generated or protected within that environment.
   Because attestation evidence and certificate private key are
   validated independently, the verifier may lack cryptographic
   assurance that the certificate private key benefits from the
   protections claimed in the attestation.

3.  Key Confirmation and Binding Profile

3.1.  Overview

   This document defines a CWT-based EAT profile and a new EAT claim
   that establish a cryptographic binding between a Subject Key and an
   attested execution environment.  The profile is defined for EAT
   conveyed as a CWT Claims Set in a COSE_Sign1 message.

   The profile provides two properties:

   1.  Proof of Possession : Demonstration that the entity presenting
       the attestation controls the private component of the Subject
       Key.

   2.  Key-to-Platform Binding : Cryptographic association between the
       private component of the Subject Key and the attested platform
       state.

   The mechanism combines:

   *  an EAT signature generated by the Attestation Key (AK); and

   *  protocol-level proof of possession for the Subject Key.

   The subject public key used for protocol-level PoP verification is
   carried in the EAT cnf claim as a COSE_Key, following [RFC8747].
   Because the attestation evidence is authenticated by the AK, and PoP
   is verified in the surrounding protocol, successful verification
   establishes that:

   *  The attested platform state is authentic; and

   *  The entity participating in the surrounding protocol demonstrates
      control of the private component of the Subject Key during
      protocol execution.

   This construction creates a cryptographic linkage between the Subject
   Key and the attested platform state, mitigating Key Substitution
   Attacks.

   The key-attributes claim conveys attributes describing key protection
   properties and permitted usage of the Subject Key. The key-attributes
   claim MUST be present and MUST contain at least one member.  When
   present, attributes such as extractable, never-extractable,
   sensitive, and local MUST follow the semantics defined in
   [I-D.ietf-rats-pkix-key-attestation].  These attributes enable
   relying parties to enforce policies such as requiring keys to be
   generated within the attested environment and prohibiting extraction
   of private key material.

3.2.  High-Level Construction

   At a high level, the mechanism binds a certificate private key to an
   attested execution environment by combining AK-signed attestation
   evidence and protocol-level proof of possession.

   First, the attester constructs an EAT Claims Set including:

   *  the verifier-provided nonce claim from [RFC9711];

   *  the cnf claim from [RFC8747] containing the Subject Public Key as
      COSE_Key;

   *  the key-attributes claim defined in this document.

   Second, the EAT is signed using the Attestation Key.

   During verification, three relationships are checked:

   *  The digitally signed and protected EAT establishes that the
      platform state is authentic.

   *  The protocol-level PoP check establishes control of the private
      component of the Subject Key.

   *  The public key in cnf is compared with the public key in the CSR
      or TLS end-entity certificate to ensure they refer to the same
      operational key.

   When these checks succeed, the verifier gains assurance that the
   certificate private key used in the protocol is the same key whose
   protection within the attested execution environment is being
   asserted.

4.  Proof-of-Possession

   The Proof of Possession (PoP) demonstrates control of the private
   component of the Subject Key.

   In this profile, PoP MUST be verified by the surrounding protocol:

   *  In certificate enrollment workflows, by validating the CSR
      signature.

   *  In TLS workflows, by validating certificate-based TLS
      authentication.

   The public key used for protocol-level PoP verification MUST
   correspond to the Subject Public Key in EAT cnf.

   For this profile, the EAT nonce claim defined in [RFC9711] is the
   mandatory freshness mechanism.  The EAT nonce claim MUST be present
   and MUST contain a single nonce value supplied by the verifier.

   The nonce MUST be supplied by the verifier and MUST be unpredictable
   and unique within the verifier's replay window.

   The validity period of the key attestation evidence is determined by
   the lifetime of the enclosing EAT.  Verifiers MUST enforce the iat,
   nbf, and exp claims defined in [RFC9711] to ensure that attestation
   evidence is not used outside its intended validity window.

4.1.  Freshness Requirements

   The verifier MUST provide a nonce with sufficient entropy to prevent
   replay.  The nonce MUST be unpredictable and unique within the
   verifier's replay window.  The verifier MUST validate that the nonce
   claim in the EAT matches the nonce it supplied.  Failure to include
   verifier-provided freshness renders the mechanism vulnerable to
   replay of previously valid attestation evidence.

   The verifier-provided nonce is the primary mechanism for ensuring
   freshness of the proof of possession.  The EAT time-based claims
   (iat, nbf, and exp) provide an additional validity window for the
   attestation evidence but do not replace the requirement for a
   verifier-provided nonce.  Verifiers MUST validate both the nonce and
   the applicable time-based claims when evaluating this profile.

4.2.  Verification Procedure

   Upon receipt of attestation evidence for this profile, the Verifier
   MUST perform the following checks:

   1.  Validate the signature on the EAT using the applicable trust
       anchors and endorsements for the Attestation Key. If this
       validation fails, the attestation evidence MUST be rejected.

   2.  Validate the key-attributes claim.  The key-attributes claim MUST
       be present and MUST contain at least one member.

   3.  Validate the EAT nonce claim.  The EAT nonce claim MUST be
       present, MUST contain a single nonce value, and MUST match the
       verifier-supplied nonce.

   4.  Extract the Subject Public Key from the EAT cnf claim.  This
       profile requires the cnf claim defined in [RFC8747] and requires
       cnf to contain COSE_Key.  Use of Encrypted_COSE_Key or a kid-only
       representation is outside the scope of this profile.

   5.  Verify proof of possession of the Subject Key using the
       surrounding protocol:

       *  in certificate enrollment workflows, validate the CSR
          signature; or

       *  in TLS workflows, validate certificate-based TLS
          authentication.

       If protocol-level PoP verification fails, the binding
       verification MUST fail.

   6.  Compare the Subject Public Key contained in cnf with the public
       key used for protocol-level PoP verification.

       *  contained in the CSR, in certificate enrollment workflow; or

       *  contained in the end-entity certificate used for TLS
          authentication.

       If the public key parameters do not match, the binding
       verification MUST fail.

   Successful completion of all checks establishes a cryptographic
   binding between the private component corresponding to the public key
   used in the CSR or TLS end-entity certificate and the attested
   execution environment at the time the evidence was generated.

   The Verifier conveys the result of the binding verification to the
   Relying Party as part of the attestation result.

5.  Claim Definition

   This document defines a new EAT claim named key-attributes that
   conveys key protection attributes and key-usage constraints for the
   Subject Key.

5.1.  Claim Structure

   The claim is defined using CDDL as follows:

   key-attributes = {
   ; Optional key protection attributes
   ? extractable: bool,
   ? never-extractable: bool,
   ? sensitive: bool,
   ? local: bool,

   ; Optional cryptographic usage constraints
   ? purpose: [* oid]

   }

   oid = tstr  ; dotted-decimal OID string

   The key-attributes claim MUST contain at least one member.

5.2.  Subject Key in cnf

   This profile uses the EAT cnf claim defined in [RFC8747] to carry the
   Subject Public Key. The cnf claim MUST be present and MUST contain a
   COSE_Key member.

   When comparing the Subject Public Key contained in cnf with the
   public key used in a CSR or TLS end-entity certificate, the
   comparison MUST be performed over the public key parameters rather
   than over their serialized encodings.  This ensures that differences
   in encoding formats (e.g., ASN.1 DER versus CBOR) do not cause two
   equivalent public keys to be incorrectly treated as unequal.

   For example:

   *  For RSA keys: The modulus (n) and public exponent (e) MUST match.

   *  For elliptic curve keys: The curve identifier and public key
      coordinates (e.g., x and y values) MUST match.  If an
      implementation supports point compression, keys MUST be
      decompressed to a common format before the comparison is
      performed.

   *  For ML-DSA, SLH-DSA, and FN-DSA keys: The comparison MUST be
      performed over the raw public key byte string defined by the
      relevant algorithm specification (e.g., FIPS-204 for ML-DSA).  In
      cnf, the Verifier MUST extract the raw public key bytes from the
      pub parameter of that structure.  In an X.509 certificate
      [RFC5280], the public key is carried in the SubjectPublicKeyInfo
      structure.  The Verifier MUST extract the contents of the
      subjectPublicKey BIT STRING and obtain the contained public key
      byte string.  The raw public key byte string extracted from cnf
      and the byte string extracted from the certificate MUST match
      exactly.

   *  For other key types: The public key parameters defined by the
      relevant cryptographic specification MUST match exactly.
      Comparison based solely on serialized encodings (e.g., raw CBOR,
      JSON, or DER byte sequences) is NOT RECOMMENDED, as differences in
      encoding rules may cause equivalent keys to appear unequal.

   If the comparison fails, the binding verification MUST fail, even if
   the attestation evidence itself is otherwise valid.  The Verifier
   MUST convey the outcome of the binding verification to the Relying
   Party as part of its appraisal result.

5.3.  Protocol-Based PoP

   This profile relies on protocol-level proof of possession for the
   Subject Key. This document does not define a new in-token PoP
   container or signature format.

5.4.  Key Protection Attributes

   The key-attributes claim includes attributes describing key
   protection properties of the private component of the Subject Key.

   When present, the attributes extractable, never-extractable,
   sensitive, and local MUST follow the definitions and semantics
   specified in [I-D.ietf-rats-pkix-key-attestation].

   This document does not redefine these attributes.  Their
   interpretation and security semantics are defined in
   [I-D.ietf-rats-pkix-key-attestation].

   A Verifier will evaluate these attributes as part of its security
   policy when determining whether the Subject Key satisfies
   requirements for key generation, storage, or exportability.

5.5.  Purpose

   The purpose parameter identifies the key capabilities associated with
   the Subject Key.

   The value of this parameter is a list of object identifiers (OIDs)
   identifying the key capabilities defined in
   [I-D.ietf-rats-pkix-key-attestation].

   These OIDs correspond to the key capability identifiers defined in
   Section 5.2.5 of [I-D.ietf-rats-pkix-key-attestation].

   When the key-attributes claim is used in certificate enrollment
   workflows, the reported key capabilities MUST be compatible with the
   KeyUsage extensions requested in the CSR and included in the issued
   certificate.

6.  Security Considerations

6.1.  Threat Model

   This document addresses Key Substitution Attacks.  In such attacks,
   valid attestation evidence from a protected execution environment is
   presented to a verifier while a private key used in certificate
   enrollment or TLS authentication is not generated or protected within
   that environment.

   The mechanism defined in this document assumes:

   *  The AK is securely provisioned and protected.

   *  The AK correctly signs attestation evidence reflecting the
      platform state.

   *  The surrounding protocol correctly verifies proof of possession of
      the Subject Key private component.

   *  The verifier provides an unpredictable nonce to ensure freshness.

   If these assumptions do not hold, the security guarantees of this
   mechanism do not apply.

6.2.  Proof-of-Possession Rationale

   The AK signature over the EAT provides evidence about the Subject Key
   and its asserted protection properties.  Protocol-level PoP
   verification provides direct evidence of control of the Subject Key.

   By requiring both checks, the profile prevents reliance solely on
   self-reported claims about the presence of the Subject Key in the
   attested environment.

6.3.  Key Substitution Attack Illustration

   The following example illustrates how the mechanism detects a Key
   Substitution Attack.

   1.  An attacker generates a private key outside the trusted execution
       environment, denoted as K_bad.

   2.  The attacker also possesses or obtains attestation evidence for a
       different key protected within the trusted execution environment,
       denoted as K_good.

   3.  The attacker submits a certificate signing request (CSR) signed
       using K_bad while attaching an EAT containing cnf for K_good.

   4.  During verification, the Subject Public Key contained in cnf
       (corresponding to K_good) is compared with the public key
       contained in the CSR (corresponding to K_bad).

   Because the public keys do not match, the binding verification fails.
   Although the attestation evidence and the CSR signature may each be
   valid independently, the mismatch prevents the establishment of a
   cryptographic binding between the certificate private key and the
   attested execution environment.

6.4.  Mitigation of Key Substitution Attacks

   This mechanism mitigates Key Substitution Attacks by requiring
   cryptographic proof that the private key used in a CSR or TLS
   authentication flow corresponds to the key whose protection within
   the attested execution environment is being asserted.

   Because protocol-level proof of possession is validated together with
   the EAT signature, and because the claimed Subject Public Key in cnf
   must match the public key used in the protocol, substitution of a
   private key that is not generated or protected within the attested
   execution environment is detected.

   If any of these validations fail, the binding is not established.

6.5.  Claim Omission and Downgrade

   If a security policy requires that the private key corresponding to a
   certificate be generated or protected within an attested execution
   environment, the Relying Party MUST ensure that the key-attributes
   claim defined in this document is present, that the EAT nonce claim
   is present, that the cnf claim is present with COSE_Key, that
   protocol-level PoP verification succeeds, and that binding
   verification succeeds.

   In deployments using a separate Verifier, the Relying Party MUST
   require the Verifier to enforce the presence and successful
   validation of the key-attributes claim, EAT nonce, cnf with COSE_Key,
   and protocol-level PoP verification as part of attestation appraisal.

6.6.  Scope of Guarantees

   This mechanism provides cryptographic evidence that the entity
   participating in the surrounding protocol demonstrated control of the
   private component of the Subject Key during protocol execution.

   It does not guarantee:

   *  That the key remains protected after attestation;

   *  That the key cannot later be exported or migrated;

   *  That the platform remains in the same state after evidence
      generation.

   Such guarantees depend on platform-specific properties and lifecycle
   management outside the scope of this document.

7.  IANA Considerations

   This document requests registration of a new claim in the "CBOR Web
   Token (CWT) Claims" registry (established by [RFC8392]).

   The following value is to be added to this registry:

   Claim Name: key-attributes CWT Claim Key: TBD Claim Description: Key
   protection attributes and key-usage constraints associated with the
   Subject Key identified by the EAT cnf claim.  Claim Value Type: CBOR
   map Change Controller: IETF Reference: RFCXXXX

Acknowledgments

   TODO

Normative References

   [I-D.fossati-seat-early-attestation]
              Sheffer, Y., Mihalcea, I., Deshpande, Y., Fossati, T., and
              T. Reddy.K, "Using Attestation in Transport Layer Security
              (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)", Work
              in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-fossati-seat-early-
              attestation-03, 1 March 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-fossati-seat-
              early-attestation-03>.

   [I-D.fossati-tls-exported-attestation]
              Fossati, T., Sardar, M. U., Reddy.K, T., Sheffer, Y.,
              Tschofenig, H., and I. Mihalcea, "Remote Attestation with
              Exported Authenticators", Work in Progress, Internet-
              Draft, draft-fossati-tls-exported-attestation-02, 3 July
              2025, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-
              fossati-tls-exported-attestation-02>.

   [I-D.ietf-lamps-csr-attestation]
              Ounsworth, M., Tschofenig, H., Birkholz, H., Wiseman, M.,
              and N. Smith, "Use of Remote Attestation with
              Certification Signing Requests", Work in Progress,
              Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-lamps-csr-attestation-23, 1
              March 2026, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-
              ietf-lamps-csr-attestation-23>.

   [I-D.ietf-rats-pkix-key-attestation]
              Ounsworth, M., Fiset, J., Tschofenig, H., Birkholz, H.,
              Wiseman, M., and N. Smith, "Evidence Encoding for Hardware
              Security Modules", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft,
              draft-ietf-rats-pkix-key-attestation-03, 1 March 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-rats-
              pkix-key-attestation-03>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC5280]  Cooper, D., Santesson, S., Farrell, S., Boeyen, S.,
              Housley, R., and W. Polk, "Internet X.509 Public Key
              Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation List
              (CRL) Profile", RFC 5280, DOI 10.17487/RFC5280, May 2008,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5280>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

   [RFC8392]  Jones, M., Wahlstroem, E., Erdtman, S., and H. Tschofenig,
              "CBOR Web Token (CWT)", RFC 8392, DOI 10.17487/RFC8392,
              May 2018, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8392>.

   [RFC8747]  Jones, M., Seitz, L., Selander, G., Erdtman, S., and H.
              Tschofenig, "Proof-of-Possession Key Semantics for CBOR
              Web Tokens (CWTs)", RFC 8747, DOI 10.17487/RFC8747, March
              2020, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8747>.

   [RFC9334]  Birkholz, H., Thaler, D., Richardson, M., Smith, N., and
              W. Pan, "Remote ATtestation procedureS (RATS)
              Architecture", RFC 9334, DOI 10.17487/RFC9334, January
              2023, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9334>.

   [RFC9711]  Lundblade, L., Mandyam, G., O'Donoghue, J., and C.
              Wallace, "The Entity Attestation Token (EAT)", RFC 9711,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9711, April 2025,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9711>.

Authors' Addresses

   Tirumaleswar Reddy
   Nokia
   Bangalore
   Karnataka
   India
   Email: k.tirumaleswar_reddy@nokia.com


   Hannes Tschofenig
   University of the Bundeswehr Munich
   Neubiberg
   Germany
   Email: hannes.tschofenig@gmx.net
